Welcome back.
To start off our section to really understand functional programming we need to start from the core
concept and that is the pillar the pure functions pillar.
We're going to start step by step with this idea of pure functions.
And I'm going to introduce you to different functional programming terms that sound a lot more complicated
than they are and finally after learning all these terms we're going to implement our functional programming
style to our Amazon shopping cart.
So what are pure functions when it comes to pure functions.
There's two main things a function has to always return the same output given the same input and the
function cannot modify anything outside of itself.
No side effects.
Let me show you with an example.
So what I said was We have a function that has no side effects so no side effects.
And then finally a function that given the same input returns the same output no matter how many times
we call it so let's start off with the first line.
The idea of no side effects let's say we have an array and this array is a simple one.
One two three if I create a function here calling it function 8.
And this function a receives some sort of array and it does the pop method on an array so that if I
call a array and I run this while I get undefined because I'm not returning anything from this function.
But the interesting thing happens here.
If I just console log dot array
I only have one and two left in the array this function has what we call side effects and side effects
are.
Well does the function modify anything outside of itself.
And it does right outside of this function this a function or religious call it now mutate array mutates
and modifies this array that lives outside of itself in the global object and this is called a side
effect.
We don't know what might happen to the array because well anybody can call it and it can change things
so that if I call a let's say again 0 and I have to make sure that I update the name my array is well
modified once again or let's say that we also have a for each function let's say array dot for each
or actually just create a new array here that will say for each item we all just push
one at the end of the array so that if I click Run well look at that 0 and make sure that we have different
names for this list to mutate array to click Run I have 1 2 1 1.
Now this is pretty confusing.
I'm not really sure what's happening here.
I have to go one by one line by line to figure out how these functions are modifying the data.
This global state.
And that's one of the problems with having side effects is that reusing shared state something like
a global variable that can interact with anything and the order of the function calls matter and that
can cause a lot of bugs.
So how can you write something that has no side effects.